Box Office: 'The Batman' Crosses $300 Million in North America - Variety
Box Office: ‘The Batman’ Crosses $300 Million in North America – Variety
Variety Print Plus Subscriber
Variety Print Plus Subscriber
Variety Print Plus Subscriber
Variety Print Plus Subscriber
Variety Print Plus Subscriber

	

								By 

							
Film and Media Reporter
Robert Pattinson’s gritty superhero adventure “
” is the No. 1 movie at the domestic box office for the third weekend in a row.
That feat is not surprising because March has been relatively light in terms of new releases. But even though there hasn’t been much competition, “The Batman” has managed to score impressive week-to-week holds. The movie collected $36.8 million from 4,302 theaters between Friday and Sunday, representing only a 45% decline from last weekend.
Those ticket sales push “The Batman” past $300 million in North America, making the comic book adaptation the second pandemic-era movie to cross that benchmark after “Spider-Man: No Way Home.”
At the international box office, the Warner Bros. film opened in China — where 43% of the country’s theaters are closed due to COVID-19 cases — to a muted $12.1 million. In total, “The Batman” added $49.1 million from 76 overseas markets, taking its global total to a mighty $598 million. Those returns represent a needed commercial win for Warner Bros., which spent $200 million to produce “The Batman” and many millions more to market the film to audiences across the world.
	
Three new movies opened nationwide, but the manga adaptation “
: The Movie,” A24’s slasher thriller “X,” and the Focus Features mystery drama “The Outfit” did not pose a threat to “The Batman.”
In second place on domestic box office charts, the PG-13 “Jujutsu Kaisen 0” notched a remarkable $17.6 million from 2,340 locations in its debut. Anime films have been increasingly popular in North America, and Funimation, which recently merged with Crunchyroll and is mostly owned by Sony Pictures, has been at the forefront. Last spring, the film company opened “Demon Slayer the Movie: Mugen Train” to $21.2 million, 
 at a time when cinemas were operating at reduced capacity.
“This is a terrific opening,” says David A. Gross, who runs the movie consulting firm Franchise Entertainment Research. “Reviews are exceptional for this and for all of Funimation/Crunchyroll movies. They have not missed.”
Meanwhile, “X” landed in fourth place with $4.2 million from 2,865 venues. Those numbers mark a quieter start, especially considering the loud praise “X” received after premiering at the South by Southwest film festival earlier this month.
However, Gross points out, “Horror is not expensive to make — clever cinematography, editing and sound design go a very long way. ‘X’ should recover its costs and make a few dollars after all ancillary money is counted.”
Ti West wrote and directed “X,” which follows actors making an adult film in rural Texas. But once the reclusive hosts, an elderly couple, catch the guests in the act, things get messy.
 
 promises that “X” will “earn your fear.” He calls the movie “a deliberate, loving and meticulous homage that isn’t simply trying to cash in on the legacy of the greatest horror film of the last half century.”
	
“The Outfit” debuted in eighth place, amassing a soft $1.5 million from 1,324 locations. Directed by Graham Moore and starring Mark Rylance and Zoey Deutch, “The Outfit” has gotten positive reviews and holds a 91% on Rotten Tomatoes.
Tom Holland’s video game adaptation “Uncharted,” now in its fifth weekend of release, pulled ahead of “X” on box office charts to secure third place. The Sony Pictures action-adventure scored $8 million from 3,700 theaters, taking “Uncharted” to $125.8 million at the domestic box office.
At the international box office, “Uncharted” crossed the $200 million mark, boosting its global tally to $337.3 million.
Channing Tatum’s canine adventure “Dog” took the No. 5 spot, pushing “Spider-Man: No Way Home” out of the top five for the first time in 14 weeks.
“Dog” lapped up $4 million from 3,307 locations, bringing the film’s North American total to $54 million. It’s a great result for the road-trip buddy comedy, which cost only $15 million to make. And it’s encouraging evidence that studios can still make non-superhero movies turn a profit — as long as budgets don’t get out of hand.
And “Spider-Man: No Way Home” — even after three and a half months on the big screen — was no slouch, pulling in $3.2 million from 2,585 screens. After this weekend, the comic book epic has generated $797.56 million at the domestic box office. It’s only a stones throw from becoming the third movie in history to cross $800 million in North America following “Avengers: Endgame” ($858 million) and “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” ($936 million).

			A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast		
The Business of Entertainment
