Weekend thread (3/11 - 3/13) | The Batman 66M. 50% drop, 2nd-biggest second weekend for WB | Uncharted 9.25, BTS 6.85, Dog 5.35, NWH 4.07 - Page 7 - Numbers and Data - The Box Office Theory — Forums

					
						

				

				

				

			15% bump vs. yesterday at the same time.
		

	Sounds like you guys have some unusual daily patterns!


			Sounds like you guys have some unusual daily patterns!
		

	 


	If you can say anything about Utah, it's that it's unusual. 



	The Batman could have (and may) garnered many secondary Oscar noms.  


			Tbf Joker doesn’t exactly serve as a counter example for Oscar consideration.
		

	Dude, i am not talking about Oscars. Just the Letterboxd scores


			Dude, i am not talking about Oscars. Just the Letterboxd scores
		

	You were directly replying to a comment amount the relationship between its letterboxd score and the Oscars 



			You were directly replying to a comment amount the relationship between its letterboxd score and the Oscars 

		

	Come on. I blatantly did not mention Oscars and only the Letterboxd score for a reason


	 


	I don't think Batman is getting major Oscars, there? Better?


	11 oscars nominations for dc again 

			Come on. I blatantly did not mention Oscars and only the Letterboxd score for a reason
		

			 
		

			I don't think Batman is getting major Oscars, there? Better?
		

	What’s with the aggression? Given the context it seemed like you were debunking a proposed link between LB and Oscar chances. I agree!


	talking about joker remember when it outgrossed TROS by 300k


			What’s with the aggression? Given the context it seemed like you were debunking a proposed link between LB and Oscar chances. I agree!
		

	Because I didn't think i would be quoted numerous times about an offhand mention of a Letterboxd score. I was just pointing out Batman has a similar score as other recently acclaimed high profile comic book movies like Joker and No Way Home. 


	 


	The best chance Batman has for major Oscars is WB to re-release in the fall and main it top campaign priority because all they have are Elvis which is dependent on box office and Don't Worry Darling which might be seen as genre play only. 


			Despite losing half of its showings in the biggest auditorium to BTS Permission to Dance (
)
		

	 


	It cracks me up that Disney sent its big budget animated Pixar film about boy band crazy tweens to its streaming service on the same weekend that a live recording of a boy band concert is playing in theaters.


	 


	#CINEMA


	Hopefully they report those BTS figures, at $35 a pop the PTA must be huge


	Looking right at $28m


	BTS is going to be like almost $7m


	Uncharted right around $4m


	Nice number, probably hurted a bit because of the weather 


	 


	Hopefully Sunday will be around 20M to compensate


	$2.35m for Dog.  


			BTS is going to be like almost $7m
		

	Holy guacamole


	little over 67 is possible?


	Going to guess WB play it a bit safe with a 64M estimate which ends up being 66 on Monday actuals.


	 


	If it hits 66 with actuals on Monday, that would lock 300M on next Sunday. Will do about 24M on the weekdays and 40 on the weekend.

No registered users viewing this page.

								

								

							

								

								

							

								

								

							

								

								

							
Mar 13 2022
164 posts
Mar 12 2022
103 posts
Mar 14 2022
61 posts
Mar 15 2022
9 posts

						Still too early, but think it could get to $19m.  
 
					

						Looking right at $28m
 
					

						$19m is back on the menu, boys.  
 
					

		

	

	

	


By using this site, you agree to our 
 and 
. Feel free to read our 
 as well.
