Now, more than a year
, Leto once again looked back at his time playing the role with a positive sentiment.
With
and James Gunn's
omitting the Joker completely, it may be some time until Leto has another chance at the character.
Jared Leto Hopeful for Joker Return Following The Batman’s Release
MCU News
Star Wars News
DC Movies News
Xbox News
Playstation 5 News
Sign In
News
Must Read
Explore
Sitemap
Moon Knight (Series)
Doctor Strange In the Multiverse Of Madness
Obi-Wan Kenobi (Series)
Scarlet Witch
Morbius (Movie)
Thor: Love and Thunder
Doctor Strange
Ms. Marvel (Series)
Spider-Man
Spider-Man: No Way Home
Darth Vader
As evidenced by the last few years, DC is never far away from bringing some version of the Joker into play on the big screen.
Unfortunately, Leto's Joker didn't get a ton of material to work with, only seeing less than ten minutes of screen time in total
.
I know they’re not, of course, but I get attached.
Even considering the less-than-ideal hand he was dealt, Leto has spoken often about how much he loves bringing this iconic DC role to life.
Playing the role in both
and
is something that Leto looks back on with pride, especially having the opportunity
“That role was an opportunity of a lifetime.
Whether it's the Joker or Morbius, he sees them as
admitting that it would disappoint him to never visit those characters again:
“For me, they’re like living, breathing people.
It’s a shame to never do it again.”
At the moment, Jared Leto is under no contractual obligations to play the Joker again, and the DCEU doesn't appear set to revisit the role in any of its upcoming movies.
While
and
got to bring their versions to their unique DC universes, Jared Leto made his mark as the Clown Prince of Crime within the DC Extended Universe.
And I got a chance to do it twice.”
When asked if he would be open to playing the role again
, Leto utilized a classic response in saying,
Leto is known for diving into the deep end with the roles he takes, which he feels in his heart after leaving them behind once shooting finishes.
Right now, Leto's focus is on the Marvel world thanks to his leading role in
, giving him another terrifying character to embody in Sony's take on the Living Vampire.
Leto's appearances as the Joker in
and
are available to stream on HBO Max.
Even with that future being uncertain, it's clear that
into this universe.
But should Warner Bros. decide to bring Leto back as the pale-faced psychopath in another DC story, the man behind the clown
.
Speaking with
during the press tour for Sony's
, Jared Leto revisited his time playing the Joker within the DC Extended Universe.
Even though he got
, he only came on-screen during the movie's final scene after teases of more in the film's promotional tour.
